---
sip: 1
title: SIP Purpose and Guidelines
status: Living
type: Meta
author: Johnny <johnny@empyrealsdk.com>
created: 2024-11-14
---

## What is an SIP?

SIP stands for Simulacrum Improvement Proposal. An SIP is a design document that provides information to the Simulacrum community or describes a new feature for Simulacrum, its processes, or environment. The SIP should include a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for its inclusion. The SIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting any dissenting opinions.

## SIP Rationale

SIPs are intended to be the primary mechanism for proposing new features, gathering community technical input on an issue, and documenting design decisions that have gone into Simulacrum. Since SIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history serves as the historical record of each proposal.

For Simulacrum implementers, SIPs provide a convenient way to track implementation progress. Ideally, each maintainer would list the SIPs they have implemented, giving users a straightforward view of the current status of a particular feature or library.

## SIP Types

There are three types of SIP:

- **Standards Track SIP**: This type describes any change that affects Simulacrum's base protocol. It includes modifications to network protocols, transaction validation rules, application standards/conventions, or any change that impacts the interoperability of applications using Simulacrum. Standards Track SIPs consist of three parts: a design document, an implementation, and (if necessary) updates to the [formal specification](https://docs.simulacrum.network/spec). Standards Track SIPs can be further categorized as follows:
  - **Core**: Includes fundamental changes requiring updating the protocol (e.g., a change to the protocol rules) or relevant changes to core components.
  - **Interface**: Enhancements in language-level standards like function naming conventions or API specifications.
  - **SIP-RC**: Application-level standards and conventions, similar to ERCs in Ethereum, such as new metaprotocols, token standards, naming conventions, and wallet formats.

- **Meta SIP**: Describes a process surrounding Simulacrum or proposes a change to a process or event within the community. Meta SIPs focus on guidelines, decision-making, tools, and methodologies within the Simulacrum ecosystem. Unlike Informational SIPs, Meta SIPs often require community consensus and are not optional.

- **Informational SIP**: Offers guidance or general information to the community without proposing new features. Informational SIPs do not necessarily represent community consensus or a recommendation; users and developers are free to ignore them or follow their advice.

SIPs should ideally focus on a single key proposal or idea to maximize their clarity and impact. A change to only one module might not require an SIP; however, a change affecting multiple implementations or establishing a standard for multiple applications will.

# History
This document was derived heavily from EIP-1 by Martin Becze and Hudson Jameson, which in turn was influenced by Bitcoin's BIP-0001 written by Amir Taaki which in turn was derived from Python's PEP-0001. In many places text was simply copied and modified. Although the PEP-0001 text was written by Barry Warsaw, Jeremy Hylton, and David Goodger, they are not responsible for its use in the Simulacrum Improvement Process, and should not be bothered with technical questions specific to Simulacrum or the SIP. Please direct all comments to the SIP editors.
